---
id: learn-proxies
title: Applications
sidebar_label: AXIA Applications
slug: ../learn-proxies
---

AXIA created a suite of free, ready-to-use applications all incorporating an embedded wallet for the AXIA Coin enabling monetization, commercialization and reward possibilities in our day to day use making them superior to existing competition. 
### AXplorer
AXplorer is a free private and secure online web browser where individuals can confidently surf the Internet without being tracked. AXplorer also makes it easy for users to earn rewards while visiting all of their favourite websites by opting into a benefits program where they are able to monetize their browsing data. Users can decide for themselves whether they want to turn data sharing off and browse in private mode or activate the AXplorer data sharing rewards system, which will result in AXC being deposited directly into their integrated AXIA Wallet after hitting certain browsing volumes. Furthermore, users have the potential to earn additional rewards by watching selected videos and ads, visiting suggested websites and responding to short questionnaires. AXplorer has all the same characteristics as the most commonly used browsers and provides the same access to all public websites that users can visit online, but gives them the ability to be in control of their own data. An individual can sync AXplorer across all their devices including phones, computers and tablets.
### AXchat
AXchat is a free messaging app that can also be used for global exchange with people all around the world. AXchat makes communicating and transacting cost efficient, simple and secure in this all in one application. Users can send and receive messages, photos, videos, files and voice notes along with their AXC freely, easily and securely. Individuals can also make voice and video calls to people all around the world at no cost. Users can connect one-on-one or create groups. Users can import contacts from their phone, or find people who are already using AXchat automatically. They can sync AXchat across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows users to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXchat supports end-to-end encryption for messaging, voice notes as well as both voice and video calls.
### AXemble
AXemble is a free meeting audio and video app for both personal and professional use. Users have the additional benefit of using  AXemble for cost-efficient, simple and secure exchange with all the participants in a given meeting. AXemble offers screen sharing, whiteboarding, instant messaging, file-sharing etc. Users can also record meetings to be saved for later. An individual can sync AXemble across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows users to use multiple devices at the same time.Security is of the highest priority, so AXemble supports end-to-end encryption for all activities in a meeting whether they be via message, voice and/or video.
### AXpress
AXpress is a free social networking app that allows individuals to communicate with people all over the world easily and efficiently. Users can express themselves through public and private messages or status updates and engage with others worldwide to discuss anything and everything from current events, politics, technology, business or sports - any topic that is important to them. Users can post news from around the world, broadcast their interests, ideas and be rewarded for building a following with the additional ability to transact in a cost efficient, secure, simple manner with this multi-functional application. In this first-of-its-kind app, people can communicate globally while being able to monetize their content in a variety of ways. An individual can sync AXpress across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows them to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXpress supports end-to-end encryption for all users.
### AXconnect
AXconnect is a free social networking app that can also be used for global exchange with people all around the world. Users can keep up with friends, family and colleagues freely, easily and securely by watching and sharing videos and photos, posting stories and playing interactive games with everyone in their network. People can share videos, photos and posts as 24 hour stories in their profile. Notifications will be received when the people in their network comment on their posts or share their posts with others. Individuals will be able to not only communicate with everyone in their network via instant message, but also transact for free in this simple and secure all-in-one application via the AXIA Wallet. People will have full control over their privacy settings. Users will be able to choose what posts they want to see and control what others see of their own activity. An individual can sync AXconnect across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows users to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXconnect supports end-to-end encryption for all activities in the app.
### AXbox 
AXbox allows users to upload, view, rate, share, comment and report on videos. Users can livestream, video blog, or subscribe to other AXbox users. AXbox allows users to also charge for subscription services, and to connect to a live stream via the AXIA Wallet. Users can transact in a cost efficient, simple, secure instant manner directly in the app. Unregistered users will be able to watch, but not upload videos. Registered users will be able to upload unlimited content or stream live as well as add comments. An individual can sync AXbox across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows users to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXbox supports end-to-end encryption for all activities in the app. 
### AXmail
AXmail is a free encrypted email application that allows users to instantly send and receive emails safely and securely. Users also enjoy the additional benefit of using AXmail as a cost-efficient, simple way to transact with anyone they correspond with via email. Users can easily sort their emails and messages into specific categories so that they can read over the emails they want first. AXmail can also protect against unneeded spam before it even hits their inbox. AXmail provides its users with significant storage space so they do not need to worry about having to copy emails or attachments out of the app on a frequent basis. An individual can sync AXmail across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows them to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXmail offers end-to-end encryption for all of its users.
### AXperience
AXperience is a free social networking app that allows users to connect with their friends and followers all around the world. People can add photos and videos directly to their feed, send messages and securely transact with this cost efficient, simple multi-functional application. At the same time, users are able to monetize their content in a variety of ways. An individual can sync AXperience across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows users to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXperience supports end-to-end encryption for messaging, as well as both voice and video calls. 
### AXstore
AXstore makes buying and selling any kind of item all around the world easy and safe. Regardless of whether a business is a sole proprietor or a multinational organization, the AXstore removes barriers to entry and puts everyone on a level playing field. Users can browse daily across the platform searching for special offers and discounts no matter what category they choose from. People can transact with confidence in a simple, cost efficient, secure manner knowing that all the transactions are done using the AXIA Wallet. Businesses also have the ability to opt-in for the innovative and dynamic AXIA Loyalty Program giving them the opportunity to not only improve customer retention, but increase revenues across the board. Users can feel free to message directly with a seller or merchant, giving them the opportunity to ask any question they may have prior to purchase. People can rate their experience with a seller on the platform while sellers have the opportunity to leave their feedback on buyers. AXstore offers a truly decentralized ecommerce platform where everything is right at their fingertips.
### AXshare
AXshare is a free file-sharing platform where individuals can share digital files with one another containing everything from videos to text files and with the possibility of earning rewards for doing so. The majority of actions on AXshare allow users to generate rewards and truly receive value for being an active community member. People can now more easily monetize the content they create or share on this unique multi-functional application. They can also transact in a cost efficient, simple, secure way. An individual can sync AXshare across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet, allowing them to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so, AXshare supports full end-to-end encryption for all users. 
### AXdepot
AXdepot is a first-of-its-kind cloud-based file storage app that allows people to save and share large digital files that cannot be stored locally on their computer or mobile device. The innovative participatory model distributes rewards for a number of actions on the platform from uploading and storing files to sharing them with others through the cloud. This app also allows users to create and edit documents, spreadsheets and more. Individuals can also monetize files, upload and create them using this multi-functional application. Transactions are executed in a cost-efficient, simple and secure manner using the AXIA Wallet. Once a person performs actions in the system, they can earn rewards that will be automatically generated and deposited into their Wallet. Plus, individuals can sync AXdepot across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. allowing them to use the app on multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXdepot supports end-to-end encryption for all its users.
### AXblog
AXblog is an innovative free blogging application that allows users to get rewarded for participation on the platform. Users can receive rewards in a variety of ways using AXblog, from interacting with posts to posting original content and more. Users can transact with this cost efficient, simple, secure multi-functional application through their embedded AXIA Wallets. Users can now not only take real ownership of their content, but monetize the content they self-publish in a manner in which they are in complete control. An individual can sync AXblog across all their devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. This allows them to use multiple devices at the same time. Security is of the highest priority, so AXblog supports end-to-end encryption for all users. 
### AXforum
AXforum is a free discussion-based and news aggregation app where users can freely share information and engage with one another's posts and content, which can be published in the form of text, links, images, videos, discussion threads, forums, and more. Through the innovative participatory model of AXforum, users can also generate rewards for being a part of the community, getting paid for a wide variety of actions on the platform from posting to commenting. Security is of the highest priority, so AXforum supports end-to-end encryption for all users.  
### AXtraxx
AXtraxx is a free music and podcast streaming app where users can share original music, podcasts or other audio content and engage with one another’s posts and content. Through AXtraxx, users can explore playlists, enjoy top artists, discover up-and-coming stars and podcast hosts, share their favorite tracks with friends and family, and enjoy a seamless audio experience. Users can also generate rewards through their use of AXtraxx by getting paid for a wide variety of actions from sharing music to creating original playlists. Security is of the highest priority, so AXforum supports end-to-end encryption for all users.  
### AXgenda
AXgenda is a free calendar and organization app where users can neatly maintain schedules, timelines and projects, set meetings, alarms and reminders, prioritize their most important tasks, share calendar information and schedule links with contacts. With AXgenda, users can also earn rewards by getting paid for their participation in the community via networking with new contacts and other tasks. AXgenda can be synced across all devices whether they be a phone, computer or tablet. Security is of the highest priority, so AXgenda protects its users' data rather than selling it to third-party advertisers.
### AXshops
AXshops is an e-commerce platform where users can buy, sell and trade goods in AXIA Coin (AXC). From individuals to businesses, AXshops can be used as a one-stop-shop when it comes to all their e-commerce needs from simple one-time purchases to setting up vast online stores and retail experiences. Through the community-based model of AXshops, users can also earn rewards through their use of the platform for participatory tasks like purchasing goods from a new online vendor or selling goods of their own. Security is of the highest priority, so AXshops supports end-to-end encryption for all users.  
