---
id: learn-security
title: Treasury
sidebar_label: Treasury
slug: ../learn-security
---

The purpose of the AXIA Treasury is to safeguard and reinforce the value of AXIA Coin. The value of AXIA Coin is enhanced by the value stemming from the ability to consistently expand the AXIA Treasury. The assets held in the AXIA Treasury are made transparent to the public in real-time, at all times, visible directly on AXIA Coin website for all to see and transparently verified through the AXIA Real-Time-Reporting Platform. The benefits of the asset-supported model will be shared among the community. 

Based on the AXIA Real-Time-Reporting available on the web dashboard on the AXIA Coin website, AXIA Coin has established a far more secure form of currency and medium of exchange.

The AXIA Treasury will vary in size and volume over time, however the Total Supply of AXIA Coins can only decrease and there will never be minting of more AXIA Coins beyond the Total Supply as the AXIA Foundation has permanently removed that ability from the AXIA Coin contract. The key objective of the AXIA Treasury is to provide balance, stability and preservation of value with a supporting asset base that can expand over time.

AXIA will be providing the AXIA community with a trackable and visible record of all holdings and activity at all times. 

AXIA is nothing like a direct-peg model used by stablecoins or traditional asset-backed structures. AXIA will not attempt to operate as either a synthetic (artificially manipulated) or fiat-like dollar. Instead, AXIA will utilize the ever-expanding AXIA Ecosystem, along with the AXIA Transaction Link, to expand the AXIA Treasury while decreasing Total Supply of AXIA Coins to provide even further value offering a completely transparent unprecedented economic model for a digital currency. 

The ATL therefore acts as the link between AXIA Coin and the AXIA Treasury to create additional value, building off the collaborative activities in the community. Anything that is transparent to the market and meets the stringent standards of the AXIA Real Time Reporting platform that can be easily evaluated and verified by external auditors nodes or the market itself can be used to collateralize the value of AXIA Coin. The benefit of this design is that AXIA Coin is not correlated to any one currency, commodity, market or economy. This results in producing the most secure currency in the market today, while simultaneously acting as a better store and preserver of value than has been established to date — a true safe haven.  

## AXIA REAL-TIME REPORTING PLATFORM
Prevalent audit and financial reporting mechanisms are becoming antiquated. Documents such as financial statements and controls assurance do not exactly provide an optimal result for complete disclosure. Auditing is generally performed considerable time after business activities have occurred. Because so much time has elapsed this type of attestation does not provide a clear view on the current standing of business operations in the present. No matter the market, greater transparency and therefore comfort for a public audience would be better satisfied if the assurance can be provided more frequently with greater visibility.
Blockchain technology can provide unprecedented levels of transparency. Confirmations in real-time, that are highly trustworthy, can power a whole ecosystem to function more proficiently with greater efficiency. 
However, there are private and hybrid applications of blockchain and distributed ledger technology where complete decentralization is simply not possible, making third-party assurance critical. An example of this are stablecoins, as many are structured to be backed by collateralized assets, making a use case for external assurance.
In the case of asset-backed stablecoins, users need to trust management that the asset backing is available due to the fact that verification is not accessible in a frequent manner, if at all. Independent attestations have emerged as a key demand in the arena of asset-backed tokens. Though periodic reporting brings some information regarding the assets, it is still not very transparent. Moreover, due to technical and monetary reasons, real-time reporting of the underlying assets is simply not available.
Passive auditing falls short of what the market really requires. It is infrequent, static, and past-oriented and fails to heighten the level of transparency and subsequently, to garner unflinching trust. This falls short of what the public truly needs from third-party assurance.
It is necessary to move from current passive auditing to deliver something that is constant in real-time. Only such an attestation can be termed transparent.
In the case of asset-backed, asset-supported and / or asset- related tokens, the problem becomes complex as the real-time transparency is rooted in off-chain data from instruments such as securities, fiat currency, property value, etc. It is imperative that this off-chain data doesn’t undermine the advantages of low-cost, immediate and immutable transfer of value, trust in redeemability, and more.
There is an urgent need for the accounting profession to keep pace with emerging technologies. This leads to the accumulation of more audit evidence and to conduct reporting on a more frequent basis. 
Designed to have  price stability to resolve volatility challenges for the cryptocurrency market, many stablecoins are tokens supposedly pegged to a currency (fiat/crypto) or commodity or have its supply line hinged to an algorithm. These are typically used for peer-to-peer payments and trading on exchanges, or even advanced use cases like automated payment of dividends in security token offering (STO) models.
Some fiat or crypto-collateralized stablecoins provide periodic audit or attestations of the underlying assets. It brings transparency, but only in a partial manner.
Real-time Reporting refers to the process involving an independent accountant using available technology to accumulate diverse evidence and perform substantive procedures for the purpose of issuing on-demand reporting to audiences while conforming to all required obligations.
The process of real-time reporting has an independent accountant collecting evidence in real-time and rolling out an opinion on a given matter on demand and immediately renderable.
Technology to derive a proof of treasury to make audits useful for actual investors and traders rather than it just being a compliance issue.
AXIA is setting a new standard for transparency, credibility and trust with the introduction of the AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform. The platform takes transparency of asset holdings to another level.
The innovations involved in the business processes are not being done for the sake of it. Knowing that deficiencies in financial reporting have set the stage for a number of unfortunate events to occur that have negatively impacted individuals, the objective was to develop a solution that brings real value for participants by providing complete visibility at all times. The AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform is a key component of the project. It introduces the market to a technology that makes reporting completely transparent. Thanks to this innovation, a new standard can emerge where only the most trustworthy systems will thrive.
The AXIA Real-TIme Reporting platform provides the public with a real-time view of the AXIA Coin circulating supply. Furthermore, there is the real-time view of total asset value in the AXIA Treasury.
The AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform is propped up by some core tech and features. These include an internal control environment to facilitate data integrity, system security and availability. A methodology that factors in people, process and technology, provides for real-time reporting adhering to prevalent standards in compliance.
Observed on a dashboard, two graphs are  displayed, showcasing two balances.
One graph demonstrates the token balance of the AXIA Circulating Supply on the blockchain at any one time. A complete node is dedicated to derive the bar graph.
The other bar graph demonstrates the total USD balance of the AXIA Treasury. Database of accounts held at banking institutions are queried via REST API to derive the balances. The system makes API calls at preset intervals and writes the balance to the Real-Time Reporting platform. 
For cryptocurrency wallet balances a microservice is deployed to pull out the data in real-time. The microservice transforms the data to a readable format and records it on a database that is queried by the application layer to display on the graph the exact number and characteristics of the tokens. The application layer queries the database at predetermined intervals to produce the most update balances.
Balances with multiple institutions and cryptocurrency wallets are accumulated to arrive at a total balance and presented in the graph.
The AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform conforms to the API gateway culture to maintain and monitor the system consistently to ensure efficient operations.  
The AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform is the culmination of the combined power of an array of technologies. Offering a real-time dive into the underlying assets in the AXIA Treasury that brings in unprecedented levels of transparency. This application is suitable in several current and upcoming use cases, if not the entire financial industry.  
The AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform has the potential to mitigate numerous risk factors, provide immediate credibility and ensure that behaviour always aligns with the best interest of all stakeholders. 
The AXIA Real-Time Reporting platform can take the financial industry into a new era where trust is never questioned.
## COMBINING FORCES – AXIA TRANSACTION LINK (ATL) & AXIA TREASURY
The ATL and AXIA Treasury operate based on a symbiotic relationship. The more activity that takes place within the AXIA Ecosystem, the more underlying value will be autonomously augmented for the supporting structure of AXIA and the more value and scarcity created for AXIA Coin. The ATL will effectively automate the hyper-delationary model of coin burning and can simultaneously direct consistent value into the AXIA Treasury. 

The ATL effectively combines the power of blockchain along with the total transparency offered by the AXIA Real-Time Reporting Platform to categorize, store and securely manage the assets within the AXIA Treasury. The design of the system will allow a variety of third party auditors to act as decentralized participants in the validation of both on-chain and off-chain entries. In doing so, it establishes not only a new transparent storage strategy to deliver value back to AXIA Coin holders, but will also accomplish this task in a completely open and trustworthy manner. 

The ATL will consolidate all activities in the AXIA Ecosystem and transaction flows associated with the utilization of the public AXIA Coin. These activities and flows will consistently reduce supply and thereby drive value back to AXIA Coin holders in a completely transparent way. 

Some innovative payment technologies capable of removing elements of volatility have emerged, including those which facilitate real-time merchant acceptance and conversion back into fiat currency. But mainstream retail adoption of cryptographic tokens remains elusive. Although many brick and mortar and online businesses desire to market themselves as innovative segment leaders by adopting new forms of technology, they ultimately provide goods and services with the goal of achieving profit. 

The innovation of the AXIA hyper-deflationary monetary model, technical design, transparent reporting structure and decreasing supply will stand in clear contrast to the monetary policy of central banks and act as a counterweight to volatile cryptocurrencies by establishing a new market standard. The inherent instability of cryptocurrencies today presents too many scenarios of financial risk that most businesses will continue to avoid if the situation is not significantly altered. This is where the combined forces of the ATL, the AXIA Ecosystem and AXIA Treasury make AXIA Coin so unique and an ideal medium of exchange. The direct acceptance of AXIA Coin could remove the need for real-time exchange facilitation and improve a business’ efficiency and productivity. It is from this foundation that a new form of value is delivered to the blockchain, digital token and currency markets. 

Those seeking to compare AXIA Coin to all other cryptocurrencies will recognize the truly disruptive nature it embodies as it shifts market speculation away from opaque perceived value to transparent measurable network value.
