---
id: learn-keys
title: AXIA Keys
sidebar_label: AXIA Keys
slug: ../learn-keys
---

## Account keys
Account keys have an associated balance of which portions can be staked to play roles in staking, resource rental, and governance. We allow several locks of varying duration, both because these roles impose different restrictions, and for multiple unlocking periods running concurrently.
Account keys play a role in activities like staking or network governance by using a portion of balance associated with them. AXIA network utilizes multiple locking mechanisms to impose desired restriction on the account keys.
AXIA encourages active participation in all these roles, but requires occasional signatures from accounts. It is important to have the account keys stored with enhanced security considering they can be kept at multiple locations physically. At the same time, account keys have better physical security when kept in inconvenient locations, which makes signing strenuousarduous. AXIA network avoids this obvious friction for users that exist on other blockchains.
Controller accounts can gain nominating powers if staked accounts choose to further delegate while also appointing some proxy-keys for governance on chain to allow the controller and proxy account to sign  staking and governing transactions respectively.
Staked accounts can register a certificate on-chain that delegates all validator operation and nomination powers to some controller account, and also designates some proxy key for governance votes. The controller and proxy accounts can sign for the account in staking and governance functions respectively.
AXIA supports both ed25519 ed25519 and Schnorrkel/sr25519 for account keys. Both ed25519 and sr25519 are very similar in security benefits as both are driven off Schnorrkel signatures. These are both Schnorr-like signatures implemented using the Ed25519 curve, so both offer extremely similar security. It is recommended that  ed25519 keys for users that require Hardware Security Module (HSM) support or other external key management solution, while Schnorrkel/sr25519 provides more blockchain-friendly functionality like Hierarchical Deterministic Key Derivation (HDKD) and multi-signatures.
In particular, SchnorrkelSchnorrkel/sr25519 uses the Ristretto implementation of Mike Hamburg’s DecafMike Hamburg’s Decaf, which provides the 2-torsion free points of the Ed25519 curveEd25519 curve as a prime order group. Avoiding the cofactor like this means Ristretto makes implementing more complex protocols significantly safer. AXIA utlizesemploys Blake2b as its primary hashing algorithmfor most conventional hashing, but Schnorrkel/sr25519 itself uses STROBE128, which is based on Keccak-f(1600) and provides a hashing interface well suited to signatures and Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge proofs (NIZKs). There are plans to upgrade to Blake3 in future to augment what is currently available. 

## Session keys
Session keys fill one particular role in consensus and security. As a rule, session keys gain authority only from a session certificate signed by a controller key that delegates the appropriate stake. The controller key holds the right to revoke or assign new session keys to a particular session at any point of time. All new session keys can be registered in advance and most will be, so Validators can easily transition to new hardware by issuing session certificates that only become valid after some future session. A pause mechanism is implemented for emergency maintenance using revocation if a session key might be compromised.
If session keys can remain tied to one physical machine, it minimizes the risk of accidental equivocation. To add to key security, Validators are always advised to issue the session certificates over the RPC interface rather than attempting to manage on their own. Almost all early PoS blockchain networks have a negligent public key infrastructure that encourages duplicating session secret keys across machines, and thus reduces security which leads to undesired slashing.
There are no prior restrictions on the cryptography employed by specific components or their associated session keys types. In BABE, validators use Schnorrkel/sr25519 keys both for regular Schnorr signatures, as well as for a Verifiable Random Function (VRF).
A VRF is the public-key analog of a Pseudo-Random Function (PRF), also known as a cryptographic hash function with a distinguished key, such as many MACs (Message Authentication Code). AXIA  awards block production slots when the block producer scores a low enough VRF output.  AXIA always uses native code to implement cryptography, not just because the runtime suffers from WASM’s performance penalties, but because all of the consensus protocols are partially implemented outside the runtime in the modules. 
The block producers are aware of their allocated slots using their secret key, while public keys can conduct verification if the blocks are produced in the appropriate slots. AXIA provides a source of randomness for the VRF inputs by hashing together all VRF outputs from the previous session, which requires that BABE keys be registered at least two full epochs before being used.
AXIA reduces VRF output malleability by hashing the signer’s public key alongside the input, which dramatically improves security when used with HDKD (Hierarchical Deterministic Key Derivation). In addition, AXIA will hash the VRF input and output together when providing output used elsewhere, which improves composability when used as a random oracle in security proofs.

