---
id: The-AXIA-Economy
title: The AXIA Economy
sidebar_label: The AXIA Economy
slug: ../TheAXIAEconomy
---

## AXIA Tokenomics

AXIA is introducing a proprietary monetary model that combines a number of economic features that provide unique benefits to participants and holders of the AXIA Coin. 

AXIA is the first ever hyper-deflationary network with an asset-supported digital currency that provides real-time transparency of its treasury holdings and all network activity. 

All the value generated from the applications, platforms and businesses on the AXIA Network and within the AXIA Ecosystem have been architected to ensure that any proceeds coming from these structures is transferred into the AXIA Treasury. 

With AXIA being a non-profit, the network and ecosystem function as a distributed and decentralized stakeholder model. The holders of AXIA Coin have a true stake in not only the value that comes from all the extensive utility offered with AXIA Coin but have a share in each of the applications, platforms and businesses along with the network itself. So, if an individual holds AXIA Coin then the enterprise value is their own, not belonging to a for-profit centralized organization or company. This economic system offers a higher level of decentralization, it removes barriers to entry and can generate more productivity and prosperity for all who participate and hold AXIA Coin. 

With AXIA everyone has a stake in a whole AXIA economy. An economy that is decentralized and will only continue to expand, increasing the benefits for the AXIA community over time. 

The innovative tokenomics for the network are on full display to the public as there is visibility of the constant decrease in Total Supply of AXIA Coin which makes it more and more scarce over time, while simultaneously there is the ability to view how the AXIA Treasury can be increasing at the same time. The AXIA Treasury has been established to give additional support to AXIA Coin and its holders. 

The unique combination of a coin supply that reduces through coin burning from activities such as participating, staking and other activities, along with a treasury that can grow with total visibility to the market provides the means for the enhancement of the purchasing power of AXIA Coin over time. This proprietary tokenomic design is enabled by a variety of smart contracts built into the AXIA Network.

Wherever possible, third-parties have been utilized to review, report and audit on the viability of the economics, the reporting tools utilized and smart contracts put in place to ensure security, transparency, reliability and credibility is always in place.  

AXIA is delivering fundamental value to the market through its innovative monetary policy and economic design. Not only do the participants have a stake in all the assets, including the network itself, and all the value they produce, but that value is distributed amongst all the participants who created  it. This design is far more decentralized than other organizations that have a dependency on smaller groups of individuals, and in which the rewards only go to a select few. AXIA can truly decentralize our economy for the benefit of everyone. 

## AXIA Coin Burning

The coin burning mechanism is facilitated from a variety of inputs that will only increase in velocity as the AXIA Ecosystem continues to expand. 

The AXIA Coin Burning Smart Contract ensures that coins are burned from the Total Supply when any of the following seven events happens:

1. When a new user registers, the equivalent of $200 USD in AXIA Coin is burned
2. When AXIA Coin is acquired inside the AXIA Ecosystem, an equivalent amount is burned
3. When AXIA Coin is placed in a staking pool, an equivalent amount is burned
4. When AXIA Coin daily rewards are generated in a staking pool, an equivalent amount is burned
5. When AXIA Coin is released from a staking pool at the end of a term, an equivalent amount is burned
6. 100% of AXIA Coin generated by way of network fees for block creation and validation of transactions is burned
7. When other activity on the network or in the ecosystem generates proceeds or an eligible fee, AXIA Coin is burned. For example:  
       * Upon use of an AXIA debit card, the associated transaction fee is generated and the equivalent amount of that fee is burned
       * If a user generates fees through the use of an ecosystem app or platform such as AXplorer or AXclusive, then the equivalent amount is burned  

**Note:** As proceeds are generated from the AXIA Ecosystem applications, platforms and businesses as well as from associated partnerships, a corresponding amount of AXIA Coins will also be burned based on the USD value being placed into the AXIA Treasury.  

With this structure, AXIA Coins will constantly be burned with virtually every interaction or activity on the network and within the ecosystem as the AXIA Treasury can be increasing simultaneously, consistently enhancing value for AXIA Coin holders over time. All this is occurring through the decentralized activity of AXIA participants. Going forward, additional coin burning trigger events may be added if deemed appropriate. 

There is an assurance that AXIA Coin will increase the rate of coin burning over time ensuring that the coin becomes more and more scarce, providing consistent value to AXIA community members. This constant reduction in supply not only can strengthen purchasing power, but exemplifies how the economic model of the AXIA Coin is anti-dilutive. This is especially beneficial for those participating in staking.

This is a complete contrast to the alternative currencies that institute a monetary policy in which there is the capacity to mint more currency whether by a centralized organization or based on specified parameters in decentralized systems. This means the total supply of these instruments - from cryptocurrencies to fiat currencies - are essentially infinite.

Monetary theorists have proposed that minting/printing more currency increases productivity for an economy. As explained this has been proven false specifically by the debt-based sovereign currency models that are in place today. Additionally, this has not removed the speculative nature of cryptocurrencies. Though there have been many advancements in technology over the last decades, productivity has not grown proportionally. 

Inflationary monetary policies where currency can be minted at any time in whatever amount have proven to result in not only the loss of purchasing power, hence value, but also yielded minimal or no significant increase in productivity. These policies establish a system of wealth concentration and unfairness and in the case of sovereign currencies also produces a dependence on debt. 

The architecture of the AXIA tokenomics is specifically based on having a model that increases productivity and prosperity across the board without the need for anyone to sacrifice. One where there will be opportunity for all individuals to advance themselves and improve the life of others as well as increase efficiency and productivity for businesses.
















